# EdgehammerC

**EdgehammerC** is an in-development C compiler inspired by *Writing a C Compiler* by Nora Sandler.  
It currently supports all C language features required to pass the book’s official test suite up through **chapter 11**, including every extra-credit feature.

The long-term vision for EdgehammerC is to serve as a playground for exploring language design. For now, development is structured around the book’s chapters:

- Each chapter corresponds to a single commit in the repository.  
- The only exception is chapters 6 and 7—chapter 7 was implemented early as a side effect of changes made in chapter 6 (oops!).  
- To keep the history aligned with the book, commits are limited to chapter completions. Each one contains the relevant implementation along with any refactoring or bug fixes.  

- While the implementation mostly follows the book’s approach, some areas differ—for example, the symbol table and scope management. Also, the book’s intermediate representation TACKY is simply called TAC here.

By the end of the book, the commit history will consist of one commit per chapter (20 total—or 19 in this case).

---

## 🚧 Current Limitations

No proper error handling yet — the compiler will panic on invalid input.
(This will be addressed after completing the book.)

The only platform currently supported is Linux on x64.

---

## ⚡️ Building

EdgehammerC is written in stable Rust (edition **2024**) and depends only on the Rust standard library.  
No unstable features or external crates are required. 

Note: EdgehammerC calls out to gcc to translate assembly into the final executable so you'll need to
ensure gcc is also installed on your system.

To build:

```bash
cargo build -r
```

---

## ▶️ Usage

Basic invocation (will produce a `some_program` executable in `some_folder` (can be overridden with `-o`):

```bash
./target/release/EdgehammerC some_folder/some_program.c
```

Assembly output can be generated by using `-S` flag and will create `some_program.s` in the current working directory.
